---
layout: post
title: "sge ants"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Ants on the Unacloud cluster using SGE

## Background

We got the challenge to generate an [Ants](https://github.com/stnava/ANTs) template from 211 images. We had runned ants in the past in a machine containing 32 cores and with 40 images the process took about 8 days. We approximated that in order to calculate this template in the same machine it would take abut a month of processing time. We would have to keep this machine all the time fully dedicated to this task. This was not possible as this machine is usually moved around the lab for different projects. Therefore we decided to try to run Ants in a cluster environment. 

Our university has a cluster platform called [unacloud](https://sistemas.uniandes.edu.co/~unacloud/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=inicio). It uses the computers in several computer rooms by running virtual machines in the background. These virtual machines are copied from an existing image and afterwards its name and ip address are changed. There are several tutorials around the web about installing sge, but here we will summarize the process that worked for us. For more information look at the [bibliography](#biblio) of this post.

We divide the process in the following steps:

1. A *nfs* shared file system, in order to share data and sge configuration.
2. A bind *dns server*, because sge relies a lot on host names.
3. SGE 
4. Ants 
5. Deploying in unacloud


## Test environment

In this examples we are going to use a Fedora server, and Debian clients. The master server will be called cangurosge, and the execution nodes will be called canguros1, canguros2, canguros3 ... . We will assume all of them are inside a private network with prefix 10.0.2.

In all machines we have a user named `canguro`. The `/etc/hosts` file contains a line indicating the address of the master, for example

_/etc/hosts_

```bash
127.0.0.1        localhost
10.0.2.5         cangurosge
```


## NFS

### Server

We need to create a folder for , for example `/home/canguro/nfs` and add it to the exports file. The exports file should look like this

_/etc/exports_

```bash
/home/canguro/nfs 10.0.2.1/24(rw,sync,no_all_squash,no_root_squash) 157.253.202.1/24(rw,sync,no_all_squash,no_root_squash)
/usr/share/gridengine/default 10.0.2.1/24(rw,sync,no_all_squash,no_root_squash) 157.253.202.238/24(rw,sync,no_all_squash,no_root_squash)
```

The second line is the folder where the sge configuration will be stored. Afterwards we need to start and enable the necessary services.

```bash
sudo systemctl enable rpcbind
sudo systemctl enable nfs-server
sudo service rpcbind start
sudo service nfs-server start
```

You can find more information about setting up the server at the [fedoraproject wiki][wiki_nfs].

### Client

In order to connect to the server from the client we first need to install the package _nfs-common_	

```bash
# apt-get install nfs-common
```

Afterwards we create the directory `/home/canguro/nfs` and mount the remote file system by typing

```bash
# mount -t nfs cangurosge:/home/canguro/nfs /home/canguro/nfs
```

You may test this by writing a test file in the master and looking at it in the client or the other way around. For more detailde information look for example at [this guide][debian_nfs]

<a name="biblio"></a>
[wiki_nfs]: http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Administration_Guide_Draft/NFS
[debian_nfs]: https://www.linode.com/docs/networking/basic-nfs-configuration-on-debian-7
## Bibliography
